# Capstone Assessment

**In the early 2000s British Petroleum, aka BP, had a problem. The world was growing aware of the burgeoning climate crisis, and they wanted BP to do something about. So instead of addressing these growing concerns about the impact the mining and use of their product was having on the environment, BP decided to make the problem disappear. Not with science but with marketing. BP did not invent the term Carbon Footprint, but they did popularize the term in a campaign aimed at shifting blame away from large companies and onto individual citizens. If you go online today you will see dozens of websites that estimate your impact on the environment. What you won’t find is a website that gives you the environment’s impact on you. My capstone project is about using data visualization to show users how estimated ecological changes will affect their day-to-day lives from the food they eat to where they live.
I did not start at the University of Cincinnati as a computer science major. I started a Communication Design major within the college of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning only switching to computer science after my first co-op rotation. The motivation for my switch was simple: I wanted to learn about how to build products rather than just design how they looked. Looking back, it was the right choice, but it was also a misguided one. Design is a lot more about colors and images, it is about understanding the fundamental ways that users use products to achieve their goals. Two classes in the CS curriculum helped me realize this: User Interface [CS5167] and Data Visualization [CS6024]. These classes taught me the basics of react and D3 while my experiences as part of UC’s NEXT Innovation Scholars taught me more about what design truly is. I plan to use React and D3 to build my capstone.
My co-ops have also played critical role in my learning in development. My final two co-op rotations were with 84.51° data analytics and Kroger where I was a UI/UX Product Design co-op. During my time at these companies, I deepened my knowledge of how to build prototypes in Figma, conduct design research, and facilitate user tests. I will be using my knowledge of all three of these areas throughout my capstone project. This includes conducting user-interviews, mocking up my project in Figma, then conducting user tests as I develop it.
As a designer, I am just as interested in stories as I am in systems. When it comes to communicating climate change it is easy to get stuck in the systems at play. The global economy, national policy, UN sustainable development goals. What makes me excited about pursuing this capstone is personalizing climate change to the user to show them their place in the broader story of what is happening. Another key reason is my involve in the strategic foresight researching happening within the 1819 innovation hub. This research looks at the current trends in the world and makes predications of how those forms could manifest into possible futures. Climate is a of course a major factor at play in these forces.
The final goal is this project is to create a web-based data visualization. I will begin work by looking for online data sets that I can use to inform my data visualization, then I will mock-up my visual design in Figma. By the end of the project, it is my goal that users will be able to select at least three personal metrics to see change in the next 10, 20, or 50 years. An example might be food, housing, and clothing, though these might change based off the data available. I will know the project is completed and completed well when a user is able to input their personal metrics and see accurate predication data for how climate change will affect their life.
